every spring and fall thousands of
whales migrate through Arctic waters
for two millennia and new Fiat whalers
have SAT patiently in there Umi acts
searching the horizon for bowhead
quailing has been in our family for
thousands of years we are connected with
the whale we are thought one we can't
live without each other it's kind of
hard to explain like in our blood
we're headed out to an extreme edge of
the polar ice cap
the trip across the ice is treacherous
massive pressure ridges of ice
constantly shifting and cracking must be
carefully navigated the search for a
safe campaign took nearly all day
if there's no landlocked ice we won't be
venturing out to your place where would
we call the new Abdullah casework say
fights face we need a scope run case
there's emergency the ice come in breaks
up everything tastes where we can run as
ours to the landlocked ice the Inupiat
have 100 words for snow and nearly as
many for ice along with safe campus the
wailers need to find ice that can be
melted for drinking water it's good eyes
huh Rebecca oh yeah haha yeah good night
real good on the edge of the ice Percy's
crew waits her poon and dark guns ready
at first sign of bowhead the Inupiat
will pursue the whale in skin boats made
of bearded seal hide and caribou seenu
the Whalers have almost given up hope
when to bow heads are spotted near the
edge of the ice never what the hunters
launch their boats in pursuit
the whaling captains strike landing a
harpoon in the bowheads neck my dad when
he first caught as well there's an
experience he couldn't explain he claims
to have died with the blade when he
harpoon the whale he said he blacked out
he couldn't remember anything when he
came to he woke up and he was tying the
flukes olive oils together he was tying
them together so and they're getting
ready to tow the whale he tied them
together and that's when we woke up the
Eskimo believed the whale offers its
life to them as a gift out of respect
for the whales sacrifice the Eskimo
offer a prayer of thanks
everyone there 65 70 people to call the
bowhead on tonight strip down to their
shirtsleeves the community work steadily
through the day body heat from the whale
is melting the already thin ice so there
can be no stopping it's a grueling
bloody process but no one complains
welcome to the birthday program
everybody and I got some good news
congratulations to ABC crew they just
caught the first whale of the whaling
season many congratulations ABC crew the
Inupiat will give thanks for the gift
they have received they would celebrate
no luck a tuck
an ancient celebration nalaka tuck is
hosted by the whaling captains and their
crews
yes
the Sioux City Westbrook guys was good
when it's where the top and the
traditions gotta help
you